so
hi everyone i'm mastermind which is
obviously not my
real name uh well i'm an application
developer at scala
i'm with hazam also a developer
blockchain developer and donovan
both are developer at scala we are very
excited to be with you
today to present our project and how we
use ipfs technologies
within our ecosystem
the presentation will take place in
three parts
first donovan will introduce our lib
ipfs library
which allows us to use ipfs within our
applications then hazam will present in
a concrete way
how we are planning to use ipfs to
secure our blockchain against potential
attacks
and finally i will present some other
users of ipfs
within our project
but first of all let me introduce scala
and
we are and what we do so
our first goal is to keep privacy as a
priority in everything we do
this is why we forked from monero in the
first place and providing a pack
blockchain
untraceable payments unlinkable
transactions and blockchain analysis
resistance our vision is to
distribute wealth for everyone and every
device
we want to be the people's coin and to
achieve this goal we focus
on implementing solutions that are
mobile friendly
and very energy efficient
there are about four billion mobile
devices in the world and we want to make
sure that
our ecosystem takes that into account we
also take a lot of time to improve the
user experience
so that our applications are can be used
easily by anyone
and finally one of our goals is to solve
real world problems obviously in a way
that is economically viable
for the project and to sustain our
growth
um so now i'm gonna leave
i'm gonna let donovan for the next part
yes thank you for that uh one of the
goals of our project
is has always been to be as
decentralized as
we can possibly make it we don't ever
want to get into a position where we're
called the
central authority of the chain where we
can manipulate things
and when we started looking at ways of
securing our blockchain
we knew that ipfs would really align
with that vision
and i believe that has led us to become
one of the first projects that's using
ipfs
in a way that can actually impact the
consensus of the
blockchain in the way that aizam will be
explaining it in
in the next section another goal of our
project
like it was just mentioned was to have
ease of use
we want to make it as simple as possible
for anyone to get involved and
for that reason we knew that our ipfs
integration
needs to be part of our core package and
not require any additional dependencies
to be installed
or any additional downloads and
registrations
all over the place so with that in mind
we explored our options our main diamond
that runs on client computers on servers
with exchanges
that's built in cnc plus plus however
ipfs
is written in go and at the time we
started looking at this
which was probably more than a year ago
now
there were no implementations to use
ipfs directly from c
plus plus without having a stand-alone
ipfs running
and using http apis
so one of the good things with go
is obviously that you can link go
libraries into c
plus code and that made it really a
possibility for us
to take ipfs and pull it into our main
daemon and from there lib ipfs as we
call it
was born our initial integration with
ipfs was actually
was quite low level if i could if i
could call it that
our library would set up initialize and
run ipfs from
within our own go code
what i mean with that is it we used a
lot of the startup logic that you can
find in the standard ipfas
daemon itself and we ran that inside of
our library
what was great about that is it allows
us a great degree of control
of what we start and what we don't start
with the
we disabled at the beginning the http
api because we didn't need it
the other reason for that is
cryptocurrency exchanges
typically don't want anything other than
the core network tools because they
don't want the overhead especially the
smaller exchanges that don't really have
a binance kind of
setup to to operate these chains on
so the other great thing about
integrating on that level was that we
could expose different ipfs features
directly to our daemon by wrapping that
feature
inside of a simple c plus to go call
and the first version of this
test was done in the fourth major
revision
of our software that was about probably
a year year and a half ago
and that fetched some of the seed nodes
and some of the
core network data that it needs to start
up from ipfs
and to our surprise almost no issues
apart from some
some users that ran a very restrictive
network setup
some of those calls were blocked but
other than that it really worked really
well
fast forward a few months later we
reviewed
our integration and we found that
dependency management
in the long run is going to be really
really tricky
this was a time when go was in that
awkward space of not really having an
official dependency management system
like it does now with go modules
some projects were using govender i
believe ipfs had gx
and some other ones just had none to
speak of
and it became obvious that because we
had such a low level integration
that any changes in the ipfa score would
disproportionately impact our
integration
which obviously takes time away from our
main focus being the
the cryptocurrency so to overcome this
we recently took a bit of a higher level
approach we still needed
we still need the go wrapper around ipfs
so that we can start the diamond from c
plus plus but instead of doing all the
work
initializing the network and connecting
and all of that
we package a compiled ipfs binary
and embed that inside of our library
with a tool
named escape or esc and
when the daemon starts up it calls a
function it extracts that package
starts the ipfs daemon and we can
communicate
then using the http api which works
perfectly fine
what's nice about this approach again is
we can add command line flags to our c
plus code to disable that
functionality for exchanges which keeps
them happy
we still achieve the goal of not having
additional software to be installed by
our users
and we we get a one out of that so that
we don't need to worry about
dependencies and we can just take
advantage of all the new ipfs
functionality as it becomes available by
just repackaging that binary into our
code
so that's a that's an overview of how we
do this on a low level
and i'll pass on to hazem now which will
explain how all of this comes together
to really
secure our blockchain hello everyone
hope you're all doing well i'm gonna
start by actually proposing a question
um why do we need
industrial security for the blockchain
is it not supposed to be like inherently
secure without the free third-party
applications
i'd say it's a pretty uh difficult
question to ask
it's not a necessity for a point like
bitcoin or something like that
because they have a lot of miners and
modes and all this stuff
to ward off most of the common attacks
uh
our problem is pretty niche and our
solution is quite niche too
mostly applicable to projects that don't
enjoy the same level of
decentralization such as that bitcoin so
um before we jump in
uh jump into how their image is all the
problem let's
take a look at some common network level
attacks against the blockchain in
particular
uh distributed denial of service attacks
they are
pretty common on blockchain these days
since if you're a small project
especially
with not a lot of players hosting the
chain it's pretty easy to take out with
those that are good to cause a lot of
havoc
and uh the next type of attack i would
say is cyber attacks and
recently monero had this very specific
attack for a bunch of nodes pretended to
be honest
and tried to find origins of certain
transactions which was
pretty complex and at the end was able
to pass a lot of problems
now moving to the main kind of attack
that causes
the most amount of problems in the
industry is 51 percent
and if a dishonest sphere has enough
compute
to overbought the majority of the
network there would be a glory right
here
basically mostly to spend the same
amount of point multiple times i'm sure
you've
all heard about this issue before this
can be devastating especially for
medium to small size projects and it
could cause huge amounts of losses for
exchanges
and there are quite a lot of existing
methods that work towards protecting the
blockchain against attacks
specifically 51 attacks and uh
um one of the best in the market uh
which a lot of coins actively use is
the delayed proof of work by komodo
it's actually pretty smart as well they
use the uh
bitcoins blockchain to store arbitrary
data in this case block hashes
of a network that tomorrow is trying to
protect
and it is regarded as one of the go to
solutions for a lot of projects at the
moment
especially popular ones like ninja
square fire changes
for professional theories and another
solution that is also pretty popular
recent times it's
just pro like glasses checkpoints where
basically they just don't allow
any kind of the organization's past
envelopes in the past
this actually could cause a lot of
issues uh as
they already had in mind but uh there is
no other option
so now that we've taken a look at some
of the existing situations let's uh take
a look at our solution which is called
dr and in essence it works a lot like uh
kmd's
creative work but instead of using the
bitcoins blockchain to store opportunity
we use ipfs since it's a lot cheaper
faster and more likely
and uh even though bitcoin has a lot of
compute
and security behind it it is still
vulnerable to 51
attacks so if somebody has a lot of
compute they can overpower the chain and
they
uh certain nodes that consistently take
block caches which are
blocks in the network and then publishes
those block hashes along with the
height and some other parameters onto
ipfs and then ipip
so that the client blockchain demons can
resolve it and get the checkpoint and
then add it to their local databases
and then the way we pick these uh load
maintainers is by
a yearly election that this gives people
a chance to be a part of this uh
secondary network
and also decentralizes some of the power
that these notes have because
they have a lot of of it power
uh they're also incentivized with tokens
from the network so they don't have an
incentive to cyber attack us
and then uh about 25 percent of the
blockchain was right now
goes to location on our network
so uh essentially this is a solution in
very very simple terms
and uh i've actually written a simple
web application to show this in action
just uh side note uh right now we're in
private data
looking to move to public in the next
few weeks and
yep this is the thing i was talking
about so basically uh you can see three
nodes here they are
taking uh block hashes from scalars
blockchain right now
and then adding that to ipfs so that
other nodes in the network would affect
these hashes from here and add it as a
permanent block
so that there cannot be any organization
past this world
and it's pretty cool and uh and i would
say latest update
pointing it is really fast i mean like
ipns resolutions used to take like
three minutes on at most now it takes
like 10-15 seconds
at most and it's really cool because you
know it avoids a lot of
ddos paths and all that stuff so yeah
i'll
give back control over to mastermind and
thanks for the opportunity and hope you
all have a nice day
all right thank you usm um
so i will now introduce um
uh to conclude our presentation some
other users of ips
ipfs in our project
first our official website is hosted on
ipfs
which makes makes it decentralized
scalable and less expensive to maintain
you can access it at scalabproject.io if
you
if you want more information about that
about what we we build
in addition we have also developed a
proof-of-work algorithm
that makes mining on mobile devices
possible
so we have recently released the
scala miner which is a mobile
application that allows mining on any
android device the application provides
a detailed dashboard to track all the
mining activities
as well as two layers of temperature
control to protect your device from
overheating
we use ipns dns link
address using ipfs gateways to fetch the
list of mining pools
which ensures maximum service
availability
and you can download the application at
mobileminer.scalaproject.io
and finally we are currently working on
phantom
uh which is in development uh it's a
content
delivery uh distributed content delivery
network a cdn
it's gonna hello allow us to offer our
users a secure and
decentralized file hosting leveraging
our ipfs
notary nodes and obviously our mobile
ecosystem
so that's it for uh for scala if you
have any questions
feel free to ask them at the end of the
meetup
thank you everyone